**Interactive Observation: The Hand Dryers in the Bathroom**

When traveling to foreign countries for J-Term or study away, students are often told to air dry their hands, or use a hand dryer in order to avoid germs on paper towels. The NYU Abu Dhabi campus has hand dryers installed in every bathroom to provide an alternative to the supposedly riskier and less environmentally friendly paper towels. However, the design of the hand dryer makes it more prone to spread bacteria than paper towels or air drying. The hand dryer itself does not host bacteria as the nozzles have filters. Rather, the fact that the hand dryer heats and pushes washroom air onto a pair of freshly washed hands results in the spread of bacteria as washroom air is loaded with potentially harmful microbes. 

The design of the hand dryer is such that the person must hold their hand out underneath in order to receive a jet of hot air. The hot air forces air out sideways as opposed to evaporating the water on the hand, which poses a risk to children under 4 feet who are exposed to the microbes in washroom air being pushed by the hand dryer. Air is pushed across a heating element before reaching a pair of hands, creating an optimal temperature for the bacteria headed out of the dryer. The speed of the dryer and its heat are difficult to replace, as most people would want a quick way to dry their hands. Therefore, the essential design of hand dryers is difficult to update, making hand dryers a weak opponent to paper towels, despite the occasional unfilled dispenser.
