In this project, I tried to create a distance-pitch sensor, where an ultrasonic detector was used to increase the pitch of the piezo buzzer with an increase in the distance detected by the ultrasonic detector. I was motivated to create this project after watching an instrument created for an autistism development center which used movement to create music. I thought it would be interesting to explore other ways to map movement into music, given the strong connection between the art of movement and the art of music. The goal of the project would be to encourage users to create music without memorizing keys, but by listening and feeling their movements create a melody.

I struggled with incorporating the servo motor in my project, and I feel as though my final outcome was a little disconnected from the main component which is the ultrasonic detector. This is because I felt as though the servo motor was not powerful enough to perform the uses I could think of, and I struggled with creating a method through which the motor would function as a musical instrument. Eventually, I decided to create music from the mundane. As someone who is not music savvy, I often applaud myself in the little tunes I create when doing mundane tasks, like making coffee. I wanted to repurpose a plastic spoon, but I found that this provided little noise, so I used a metal spoon. I failed to mount the servo motor above the mug, so I had to resort to holding the motor over the mug in order to allow the spoon to move. 

Another struggle I had with the project is the occassionally random note given off by the piezo buzzer despite the distance of the object not changing. I checked if my connections are secure, and I ensured that the code was accurate, but I was unable to detect the reason for the occassional random note. 
